PEP 744: Additional updates from discussion thread (#3861)
python/peps: peps/pep-0744.rst

and has no runtime dependencies. It supports a wide range of platforms (see the
`Support`_ section below), and has comparatively low maintenance burden. In all,
the current implementation is made up of about 900 lines of build-time Python

> code and 500 lines of runtime C code. The current approach is optimized for 

Author: I debated putting this here or in Rejected Ideas? Rejected Ideas didn't seem like quite the right place. Happy to shift this around if you think there's a better spot.

Reviewer: I think it's fine here if it's just one sentence. If you add a multi-paragraph discussion of AOT compilation, "Rejected ideas" would be a better fit.

Reviewer 2: Eh, I sorta think it would be better somewhere else, personally. It feels a bit weird to essentially say "we're just doing it this different way" in a section titled "Rationale".

I'd either put it in a (short!) Rejected Ideas section or work it into the last paragraph of the Motivation section (where this question is already strongly hinted at).

Also, from a technical perspective, the problem isn't really that the compiler is "optimized" for JIT compilation. The problem is that supporting AOT would be a massive ground-up redesign of the existing specialization and micro-op tracing infrastructure that we already have.

runtime compilation and would likely not work well for ahead-of-time compilation. 
This is not a direction currently being explored or pursued.

Specification
=============

> Before discussing the requirements that need to be met before the JIT can be

Reviewer 2: This first sentence is a bit meta and breaks the flow of the PEP, in my opinion. You can probably just keep the second sentence and add it to the start of the following paragraph.

> considered non-experimental, it is important to clarify that it will always be

Reviewer: "always" is a long time, do we really want to guarantee the JIT will never become important enough to be required?

Reviewer 2: If we do that, we can write a PEP. I think "always" is a fine promise to put people at ease about waking up one day to it suddenly being required.

possible to build CPython without the JIT. The JIT is currently not part of the
default build configuration, and it is likely to remain that way for the 

> forseeable future (though official binaries may include it).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
foreseeable future (though official binaries may include it).
```
I think this is the more common spelling

<https://github.com/faster-cpython/benchmarking-public/blob/main/configs.png>`__
on most platforms. Improving this is obviously a top priority at this point,
since providing a significant performance gain is the entire motivation for
having a JIT at all.

> Presently, there are a both higher-level and lower-level optimizations being 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Presently, there are both higher-level and lower-level optimizations being 
```

> Presently, there are a both higher-level and lower-level optimizations being 

Reviewer 2: On further reflection, I'm actually not sure we need this paragraph, since it's sort of getting a bit too low-level. I also don't want to have a listing here that needs to be updated over time (and a lot of these are actually independent of the specific machine-code generation strategy proposed here).

> explored which may improve overall speed. At a higher-level (i.e. at the Python 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
explored which may improve overall speed. At a higher level (i.e. at the Python 
```

level), optimizations, like removing type checks, propagating constants and 
inlining functions, are considered when it can be proven that it is safe to do 
so. At this level, there is also opportunity for reasoning across micro-ops and 
identifying opportunities for replacing micro-ops with more efficient equivalents. 

> Examples of this include smaller optimization like skipping reference counting 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of this include smaller optimizations like skipping reference counting 
```

for known immortal values, as well as larger optimizations like replacing global 
loads with constants if it can be proven that they have not been modified. At a 

> lower-level (i.e. machine code stage), it's possible to optimize across micro-ops

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lower level (i.e. machine code stage), it's possible to optimize across micro-ops
```

Not much effort has been put into optimizing the JIT's memory usage yet, so
these numbers likely represent a maximum that will be reduced over time.
Improving this is a medium priority, and is being tracked in `GH-116017

> <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/116017>`__. However, we are currently
> exploring how garbage collection of cold traces (i.e. traces that are no longer
> executed) could be implemented, which could reduce the JIT's memory usage. We may 
> also consider exposing configurable parameters for limiting memory consumption in the
> future. No official APIs will be exposed until the JIT meets the requirements to be
> considering non-experimental.

Reviewer 2: Similar here. I think readers probably care more about the "what" than the "how":

```suggestion
<https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/116017>`__.
 
We may consider exposing configurable parameters for limiting memory consumption in the
future, but no official APIs will be exposed until the JIT meets the requirements to be
considering non-experimental.
```
